---
title: "ACMC 2023"
location: "University of New England, Sydney campus, Parramatta, NSW"
created: 2023-10-16
authors: 
  - charlesmartin
feature_image: /assets/images/acmc22-1.jpg
---

## Australasian Computer Music Conference 2023 & ElectroMUSE Concert Series

The University of New England is thrilled to be hosting the 2023 Australasian Computer Music Association Conference and Concert Series. ACMC is the annual gathering of the Australasian Computer Music Association where you are invited to share and discuss emerging research and innovative practice in computer/electronic/digital music. ACMC is a festival of performances, installations, workshops, and tutorials that will inspire, challenge, and showcase the emerging work of global leading researchers and artists in this rapidly growing community of practice.

ACMC will take place on the 9th-11th October at our Sydney Campus at the University of New England, Parramatta. ACMC will partner with the Parramatta City Council and the Parramatta Lanes Festival to present a concert series in conjunction with a program of presentations and workshops across the three-day event with leading academics and artists.

We invite students, academics, artists, and all enthusiasts of digital and electronic music to attend this inspiring event. UNE students can access the event for free.

## 2023 Conference Theme: ElectroMUSE

This year’s ACMC theme is ElectroMUSE. The Muse of Ancient Greek mythology are nine goddesses who preside over the arts and science and were the source of inspirational fire for the artist. To muse on something is to absorb in thought and to deeply reflect. ACMC2023 will absorb participants in thinking deeply about music and its relationship to all things technological, digital, and electronic. We will take inspiration from the technological muse of our age and engage with an array of creative processes and musical outputs throughout the event.

Technology has long been an integral part of music making practice and now more than ever, is a source of inspiration and collaboration among musicians and artists working with sound.

Humans and machines continue to evolve, becoming ever more deeply entwined, with greater power than ever before, to impact our social and cultural fabric and alter the world. Technology offers great opportunity and promise but also brings challenges and many unknowns which can generate fear and distrust. As we navigate our rapidly changing technological world, we will muse upon, explore, imagine, investigate, reflect, make, collaborate, and draw inspiration from the emerging technologies that are fast becoming the Muse of the modern age, inspiring our music and music making practices.
