---
title: "ACMC 2024 Futurity"
theme: "Futurity"
location: "The Australian Institute of Music, Sydney and Melbourne, Australia"
dates: "22-23 October 2024"
date: 2024-07-08
feature_image: /assets/images/ACMC2024-logo.jpg
---

The Australasian Computer Music Conference (ACMC) is the annual gathering of the Australasian Computer Music Association, a place to show and discuss research and artistic progress in computer and electronic music. It’s a festival of performances, installations, workshops, and tutorials that inspire, challenge, and showcase our community.

- **Date:** {{ page.dates }}
- **Location:** {{ page.location }}
- **Theme:** {{ page.theme }}
- **Submission Page:** <https://cmt3.research.microsoft.com/ACMC2024>
- **Registration Page:** [Sydney (Eventbrite)](https://www.eventbrite.com.au/e/acmc-2024-sydney-futurity-aim-symposium-tickets-970238899667), or [Melbourne (Eventbrite)](https://www.eventbrite.com.au/e/acmc-2024-melbourne-futurity-aim-symposium-tickets-970248347927)
- **Submission Guidelines:** [see below](#submissions)
- **Paper Template:** <https://github.com/australasian-computer-music-association/acmc-template/releases/tag/v0.1.0>

## Important dates: {#dates}

- Submissions open: **July 10, 2024**
- Submissions close: **26 August, 2024**
- Notification of Acceptance: **September 23, 2024**
- Camera-ready[^1] and author registration deadline[^2]: **7 October, 2024**
- Conference: **22-23 October, 2024** (AIM Symposium: 24 October, 2024)

[^1]: The camera-ready deadline is the final deadline by which authors must submit their completed, fully formatted paper, incorporating all revisions, that is ready for publication without any further edits or changes. Full papers that do not have a camera-ready submission by this date will be appear in the program as abstract-only papers.

[^2]: The registration deadline is the final deadline that accepted authors must register for the conference to be included in the program. Submissions where no author has an appropriate registration will be removed from the program after this date.

## About the Conference {#about}

This year’s ACMC theme is _futurity_. As creative computational processes and technologies take an increasingly centre-stage in the popular discourse, we too, in music, sound, technology and performance, contemplate the futurity of recent developments in the field/market(s); topics spanning decades of ACMA activity are now in common parlance, how do we lead these futures?
ACMA is an inclusive conference. We want to connect the diverse range of people who contribute to Australia’s computer/electronic music culture, including and especially artists and scholars who are gender diverse, young/emerging, from regional/remote areas, who have a disability, who are First Nations People, who have low/no income, who are engaged in community music making, or who simply work outside of academia and mainstream institutions.

ACMC 2024 will take place at the **both** Australian Institute of Music (AIM) Sydney **and** Melbourne campuses. AIM’s Symposium will be on the last day (24 October) forming a 3-day conference with specialised lectures, workshops performances and presentations highlighting the latest in tertiary and post-graduate research at the Australian Institute of Music!

- (ACMC2024) 22-23 October, 2024 + (AIM Symposium) 24 October, 2024
- Remote/online connections (internet streaming options) will be available for presenters/attendees. (N.B., full registration may be required)
- Submissions are open from July 10, 2024 with the opportunity to provide feedback and engage in conversation with all interested participants. 
- Conference attendees/presenters can nominate which state/venue they wish to attend for ACMC24 conference.

While the theme of ACMC 24 is futurity, we welcome proposals across the range of computer music topics and practices, with an emphasis on interdisciplinary and AI Music topics.

## Call for submissions {#submissions}

We are calling for submissions under two categories: **papers/artist talks**, or **music with program notes**.

We consider both categories to be equally valuable formats for artistic research contributions in computer music. Both will be subject to peer-review and the split is simply to allow the most appropriate materials to be uploaded and to assist in forming the program. Potential submissions may not fit exactly into these categories and can be submitted according to whether the presentation format would be more appropriate as a talk or performance.

- **Papers/artist talks** can be submitted as abstract-only (up to 2500 characters) or full text papers (2000 to 5000 words) including a PDF version of the submission.
- **Papers/artist talks** that are accepted will be presented either as a talk with slides or a poster presentation.
- **Music with program notes** submissions require 
  - a program note (up to 2500 characters)
  - an explanation of technical requirements (up to 2500 characters)
  - a link to a video or audio version of the piece of music to be included in the conference (maximum time 15 minutes)
- **Music with program notes** submissions must link to either a demo recording or the actual audio to be diffused at the conference. In either case the link should be representative of the proposed work in content and length. Works of 7-14 minutes are most appropriate.
- **Music with program notes** that are accepted will be presented in a live concert.
- **All submissions** meeting submission requirements will receive 2 peer reviews and a meta-review by a program committee member
- **Reviewing** is single-blind (reviewers unknown to authors)
- **Abstracts and program notes** will be published in the conference proceedings.
- **Full text papers** should be submitted using the [ACMC 2024 template](https://github.com/australasian-computer-music-association/acmc-template/releases/tag/v0.1.0) (Latex or Word), please submit a PDF file.
{% comment %}
- **Full text papers submitted and accepted** that meet the length requirements and that are finalised by the camera-ready deadline will be published in [Chroma]({% link chroma.md %}).
{% endcomment %}

## Conference Locations: {#location}

- **Sydney**: Australian Institute of Music, 66 Harrington St, Sydney NSW, 2000 26-27 August, 2021
- **Melbourne**: Australian Institute of Music, 120 King St, Melbourne, VIC, 3000

Registration links are at the top of the page. Note that a paid registration is required for remote presentations.

## Travel and Local Information {#travel}

### Sydney

A conference discount is available at [The Grace Hotel, 77 York Street, Sydney (reservation link)](https://reservations.travelclick.com/95041?RatePlanId=9121589) with access code `ACMA24`.

## Contacts {#contacts}

General chairs: [Mark Oliveiro](https://aim.edu.au/lecturers/dr-mark-oliveiro/), [Vincent Giles](https://aim.edu.au/lecturers/vincent-giles/).
