---
title: "ACMC 2003"
location: "Perth, Western Australian Academy of Performing Arts"
---

Australasian Computer Music Association Conference 2003

## Keynote Address:

[Gil Weinberg: Interconnected Musical Networks – Bringing Expression and Thoughtfulness to Collaborative Group Playing and Lindsay Vickery: Interview with Gil Weinberg]({% link proceedings/ACMC2003-proceedings/001-004Keynote-Weinberg.pdf %})
	
## Fully Refereed Papers

Roger Alsop: Compositional Processes in Developing Poly-Media Performance Works

Ross Bencina: PortAudio and Media Syncronisation - It's All in the Timing

Andrew Brown: Australasian Digital Instrument Building

Hannah Clemen: Interfaces for Public Use Interactive Installations: Some Design Concepts, Problems and Possible Solutions

[Angelo Fraietta: Incremental sound installation development using the Smart Controller]({% link proceedings/ACMC2003-proceedings/036-042Fraietta.pdf %})

David Hirst: Developing a cognitive framework for the interpretation of acousmatic music

Stuart James: Possibilities for Dynamical Wave Terrain Synthesis

Christine McCombe: An Opera of Clouds: Time and Space in mixed media performance

Peter McIlwain and
Paul Doornbusch: Integrating Spatial Parameters in Musical Composition

HEDKIKR: cytoblasty
Jonathan Mustard: Aesthetics in Sight-to-Sound Technology and Artwork:
“Why do we do it?”

Lindsay Vickery: Non-linear structures for real-time interactive musical works

## Non-Refereed Papers

Donna Hewitt: EMIC - Compositional experiments and real-time mapping issues in performance

Cat Hope: A Wardrobe of D.A.C.S- The Development of an Interactive Garment

Rene Wooller: A Brief Analysis of Club Drum and Bass: Compositional Structures and Sonic Forms

## Artist Talks and Studio Reports

Jon Burtt and
Katie Lavers: Artist Talk: Skadada: The creation and development of multi-artform performance

Cat Hope and Anne Walton: Artist Talk: Skirting the square screen

Hannah Clemen: Interactive Sound Installations Designed for Encouraging Meditative States

Greg Jenkins: Artist Talk: Intimate Transactions

## Other Artist Talk and Studio Report Titles:

Steve Adam: Recent approaches to the Design of Interactive Music Systems for Performance and Installation

Anne Norman: BG1: The Bell Garden proto-type

Greg Jenkins: Studio report: QUT studio report - A room full of Emacs

Lindsay Vickery: Studio Report: ECU – Studio for Research in Performance Technology 02-03

## ACMC 03 VISITING ARTISTS

### Gil Weinberg (USA)

Gil Weinberg is a member of the Hyperinstrument group at MIT Media Laboratory. His research centers on designing musical networks for group collaboration with a special focus on devices and applications for novices and children. His publications appear in Computer Music Journal, Leonardo Music Journal, and Personal Technologies and in conference proceedings such as ICMC, CIM and CHI. He has been commissioned to compose and develop workshops and installations by orchestras, art exhibitions, and festivals worldwide. His work has been featured at Ars Electronica, the Smithsonian Museum, Deutsches Symphonie-Orchester Berlin, the Cooper Hewitt Museum, the National Irish Symphony Orchestra and the Scottish BBC Symphony Orchestra, among others. Before coming to MIT Mr. Weinberg founded Sense Multimedia and served as the director of product design at MusicNotes, where he was responsible for the development of a number of influential music software packages. He received his MS in media arts and sciences from MIT and his B.A. majoring in music, arts, and computer science from Tel Aviv University, where he founded the electronic music studio in the musicology department and developed the electronic music curriculum.	
 	 
### Bernard Parmegiani: (FRANCE)

Parmegiani entered the Group of Musical Research in 1959 where he studied electroacoustic music under Pierre Schaeffer. Programmed in international festivals and concerts on throughout the world he has been awarded the Prix de l'Académie du Disque Français (1979); Prix de la SACEM (1981); Les Victoires de la Musique (1990); and the Prix «Magister» au Concours International de Bourges (1991). His work has expanded from the traditional world of Musique Concrete to include video art in works such as: The Eye listens (1973), Jeux of artifices (1979) and the transparent Screen (1973). He also been involved in the nexus  between improvisation techniques and electroacoustic music through work with various free jazz groups: J-L Chautemps, B Vitet, Michel Portal and Popular music groups such as  The Third Ear Band and Air.	
 	 
### Joseph Waters: (USA) 

Joseph Waters studied composition at Yale University, the Universities of Oregon and Minnesota, and Stockholms Musikpedagogiska Institut. His primary teachers were Jacob Druckman, Bernard Rands, Roger Reynolds, Dominick Argento, Martin Bresnick, Robert Kyr and Jeffrey Stolet. He is a member of the first generation of American classical composers who grew up playing in rock bands. Throughout his career he has been intrigued by the connections, confluences, and tensions which entangle and bind the great musics of Europe and Africa. Much of his work involves interactions between electronic and acoustic instruments. He has been involved in Inter-disciplinary and collaborative works on and off since the early 1980's. His works are regularly performed around the world. Principal performances include the Festival of Chinese Arts (Hong Kong), the International Computer Music Conference (ICMA), ISMEAM '98 (Hungary), the ALTERNATIVA Festival Moscow (Russia), MUSICA NOVA, in Londrina, Brazil and across the United States. Waters is the Artistic Director of the North West Electro-Acoustic Music Organization (NWEAMO) in Portland, Oregon. He also founded and co-directed Network for New Music in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania during the 1980s.He has received numerous awards in composition, including National Endowment for the Arts/Rockefeller Foundation (through the Painted Bride Arts Center, Philadelphia), Regional Arts and Culture Council and Pennsylvania Council on the Arts grants. He taught music composition, theory and electronic music at Lewis & Clark College in Portland, Oregon from 1993—2001. From fall 2001 he is Assistant Professor and Director of Electro-Acoustic and Media Composition at San Diego State University.	
 	 
### Ensemble-in-Residence: Blisters (AUS)

Blisters is Australia's first ensemble of interactive-electroacoustic instrument builders. The quintet boasts nearly 100 years worth of collective experience in this area and its members have been building instruments, composing and improvising since the 1970s.  Automatic violins, thinking-instruments, modified instruments, LightHarps, giant Laser lyres, real air and sensorlab guitars, microtonal instruments, installations, Leather serpents and retro-radio style objects are just some of music making machines you would expect to experience at any given Blisters event. Blisters is Jon Rose, Rainer Linz, Tom Fryer, Joanne Cannon and Stuart Favilla.  The ensemble aims to explore 21st Century music-making through instrument development, behaviour, interaction, group-improvisation, production and performance.

## Hosted at

studio for research in performance technology
0893706826
WAAPA@ECU
2 Bradford St
Mount Lawley
6050