---
title: "ACMC 2018"
location: "Edith Cowan University, Perth"
created: 2018-04-11
authors: 
  - skotmc
---

**Theme:** Reflecting Worlds: The Promise and Limitations of [Mimesis](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mimesis) in Electronic Music **Date: 6-9 December 2018** **Where: WAAPA ECU Perth Australia**

**News:** The [ACMC 2018 Proceedings](http://computermusic.org.au/media/2018/12/ACMC2018Proceedings.zip) are now available for download. \[20 Mar 2019\]

The Conference of the Australasian Computer Music Association will hold its annual conference in conjunction with [41st MSA Conference](http://msa.org.au/Main.asp?_=2018WAConf&FormID=269) 6-9 December 2018 at the [Western Australian Academy of Performing Arts](http://www.waapa.ecu.edu.au), Edith Cowan University. The Association invites composers/sound artists, performers, academics, engineers, and technologists to present research and creative works on all aspects of electronic music, but especially work relevant to the conference theme _“Reflecting Worlds: The Promise and Limitations of Mimesis in Electronic Music.”_ The conference theme encourages – but is not limited to – papers addressing the following sub-themes:

- Computer music performance practices
- Computational analysis and digital musicology
- Digital signal processing
- Digital scores, score delivery, and notation
- Sound design and sound recording
- Development of computer music software
- Telematic and internet-based performance
- Web-development for streaming audio and multimedia
- AI in composition and performance
- Sonic analysis-resynthesis

Papers and presentations may be in any of the categories outlined below, including creative works (ACMC only). **Abstracts** of up to 250 words are due by Midnight AEST **Friday 25 May 2018** and are submitted via the [MSA conference website](http://www.msa.org.au/Main.asp?_=2018WAConf&FormID=269). Please be sure to tick the box noting your intention for your paper to be considered for ACMC 2018. Note that the inclusion of creative work is encouraged as a means of research reporting. Stereo playback, and data projection facilities will be made available to all presenters.

**CREATIVE WORK (ACMC proposals only)** Note that ACMC also invites the submission of creative works for inclusion in concerts or a multi-channel listening room. Both the concert venue and listening room will be equipped with 8 channel surround systems. This may include multi-channel electroacoustic live performances, interactive and/or fixed media, or installations. Creative works are submitted via the same online abstract submission process. Please be sure to provide a link to the creative work (or supporting material) within the body of the abstract.

**Guidelines for submission of full papers (subsequent to abstract acceptance)** A double-blind refereed conference proceedings will also be produced in advance of the conference. On acceptance to ACMC 2018 (on the submission of an abstract), authors will be invited to submit a full paper for consideration in the proceedings. **Full papers** will be due by **Friday 14 September 2018**.

**Guidelines for authors:** The text should be single-spaced; use a 12-point font; employ italics, rather than underlining (except with URL addresses); and all illustrations, figures, and tables should be placed within the text at the appropriate points, rather than at the end.

The text should adhere to the stylistic and bibliographic requirements outlined in the [ACMC submission templates.](http://www.computermusic.org.au/ACMC-Templates.zip)

Enquiries for ACMC2018: Lindsay Vickery [l.vickery@ecu.edu.au](mailto:l.vickery@ecu.edu.au)
