---
title: "ACMC 2021"
created: 2021-12-17
location: "Sydney / Melbourne, Australian Institute of Music"
authors: 
  - charlesmartin
---

Sydney / Melbourne, Australian Institute of Music

Proceedings: ([pdf](assets/ACMC2021-proceedings.pdf))

## Sydney

Australian Institute of Music  
1 Foveaux St, Surry Hills NSW, 2010

26-27 August, 2021

## Melbourne

Australian Institute of Music  
120 King St, Melbourne, VIC, 3000

26-27 August, 2021

ACMC is the annual gathering of the Australasian Computer Music Association, a place to show and discuss research and artistic progress in computer/electronic music. It’s a festival of performances, installations, workshops, and tutorials that inspire, challenge, and showcase our community.

Synthmoot will introduce the 3-day conference with specialised workshops, performances and presentations highlighting the resurgence in hardware synthesis in today’s music making toolkit!

This year’s ACMC theme is _connections_. We want to connect the diverse range of people who contribute to Australia’s computer/electronic music culture, including and especially artists and scholars who are gender diverse, young/emerging, from regional/remote areas, who have a disability, who are First Nations People, who have low/no income, who are engaged in community music making, or who simply work outside of academia and mainstream institutions.

In keeping with our theme, remote/online connections (internet streaming options) will be available for presenters/attendees.

Submissions are open from May 1, 2021 with the opportunity to provide feedback and engage in conversation with all interested participants. Conference attendees/presenters can nominate which state/venue they wish to attend for ACMC21 (+ Synthmoot).

**Submissions have now closed. Stay tuned for updates.**

While the theme of ACMC 21 is _connections_, we welcome proposals across the range of computer music topics and practices, with an emphasis on connection and synthesis.
