---
title: "ACMC'21 + Synthposium: Connections @ AIM"
created: 2021-04-23
categories: 
  - news
authors: 
  - markoliveiro
---

We're excited to announce the Australasian Computer Music Conference (ACMC) will take place in **both Sydney and Melbourne** at the [Australian Institute of Music](https://aim.edu.au) from **August 26-28, 2021**. This will include a one-day special event called a _Synthposium_, focusing on the use of synthesis (hardware and software) in creative practice.

Website: [acmc21.art](https://acmc21.art)

ACMC is the annual gathering of the Australasian Computer Music Association, a place to show and discuss research and artistic progress in computer/electronic music. It’s a festival of performances, installations, workshops, and tutorials that inspire, challenge, and showcase our community.

The synthposium will introduce the 3-day conference with specialised workshops, performances and presentations highlighting the resurgence in hardware synthesis in today’s music making toolkit!

This year’s ACMC theme is connections. We want to connect the diverse range of people who contribute to Australia’s computer/electronic music culture, including and especially artists and scholars who are young/emerging, from regional/remote areas, who have a disability, who are First Nations People, who have low/no income, who are engaged in community music making, or who simply work outside of academia and mainstream institutions.

In keeping with our theme, remote/online connections (internet streaming options) will be available for presenters/attendees.

Submissions are open from **May 1, 2021** with the opportunity to provide feedback and engage in conversation with all interested participants. Conference attendees/presenters can nominate which state/venue they wish to attend for ACMC’21 (+Synthposium).

Early questions and queries can be directed to [conference@computermusic.org.au](mailto:conference@computermusic.org.au) or to [mark.oliveiro@aim.edu.au](mailto:mark.oliveiro@aim.edu.au)
